HELLO!!! I'm Ryan Whitford and I'm an undergraduate physics student at UCLA. 

I've made some demonstrations of various fundamental systems that I am excited to share!
The equations that govern even simple quantum systems often times carry great complexity.
Consequentially, it is important for physicists to understand how to use numerical methods
to solve these equations, as well as understanding how to visualize and interpret results.

Please enjoy!


DESCRIPTIONS:

INFINITE WELL POTENTIAL:
The infinite well potential is often the first potential students solve the (time-independent) 
Schrödinger equation with due to the simplicity of the solution. Students can find the resulting 
graphs helpful to compare solutions of different energies and play around with the parameters. 
It is an important example for those to familiarize themselves with the statistical 
interpretation of the wave function.

HARMONIC OSCILLATOR POTENTIAL:
The harmonic oscillator potential is extremely fundamental to the study of quantum mechanics
because it can be used to approximate (as a Taylor approximation) other much more complex
potentials(and physicists love their approximations!). The solution isn't so simple, so here
I introduce a method to solve it numerically by approximating the wavefunction to live in a
discrete function space (see link below). When doing this, the Hamiltonian operator can be represented as an
N-dimensional matrix (where N is finite, and preferably large) and solve the eigenvalue problem
for the matrix. This gives shocking accuracy, and I compare the numerical solution to the
analytical solution which can be found from the long and tedious process of the power series
method. 
If you're curious on the math that I used, I found this thread to give a helpful explanation:
https://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/170546/numerical-solution-to-schr%C3%B6dinger-equation-eigenvalues

HYDROGEN ATOM:
Moving onto solving the three dimensional Schrödinger equation, the hydrogen atom is a fundamental
(and super important!!!) example. Similar to my quantum harmonic oscillator demo, I employ numerical
methods to solve the radial equation and compare with the analytic solution. To visualize the three
dimensional wave function is much more involved than the 1D cases. I show two different ways to visualize
the resulting orbitals that the electron lives in. The first is a 3D plot that shows the region the 
electron is likely to live in (with a slice cut out to see the inside). The second plot is a 2D heatmap
of the orbital. The reason a 2D heatmap can be used to visualize a function of 3 variables is because 
there is a symmetry about the z-axis, so it turns out the probability density is only dependent on 
2 variables. The latter method is superior computationally and interpretively in most cases.

DOUBLE PENDULUM:
The double pendulum is great demonstration of how simple looking systems can act chaotic. Tiny differences
in initial conditions yield vastly different results. In my demo you can input different initial conditions
and it will trace the trajectory of each pendulum. The trajectory is solved mathematically using Lagrangian 
Mechanics which results in a system of 4 differential equations that describe the motion. Scipy has great
libraries that allow us to solve these types of equations with given initial conditions. 
If you have never seen an animation of the double pendulum or want a refresher I recommend watching this 
video beforehand to better understand what I am modeling:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BLsQexP_UYE

